the person of history cuts like a red
line through this book and that had
already existed which is why as I you
know in some ways this book is a prequel
to emperor the second event is you know
the more the more I was thinking about
cancer the more I thought about normalcy
and what makes a cell normal how do we
have how does our body ourselves inshore
normalcy and then the third one is you
pointed out were the remarkable changes
in scientific technologies that allow us
to as I describe it read and write
genomes my own concerns are that we need
to have the vocabulary that and the
scientific and model tools to be able to
make these decisions oh my own scans are
you know obviously i think that the
dangers are great and the promises i
rate i think the capacity to cure
diseases through gene therapies you know
we work on this in our own lab so we I'm
very optimistic about the idea that we
can if genes and genetic therapies and
the power of genes is used in the proper
way we can really have a profound effect
on human health but on the other hand I
think we don't even have the moral
skeleton to be able to ask the question
you know to what extent should we
interview intervene on the human genome
in a permanently heritable way gene
therapy is easier to some extent because
energy with gene therapy are not having
a permanently heritable effect on the
human genome you're not changing the
human genome in perpetuity but the
genetic surgery or genetic at editing
gene editing gene genetic engineering in
that sense has the capacity to change
human heredity or an animal's heredity
in perpetuity that's a very different
scenario my life is interested in blood
and the development of blood and blood
cancer
and we studied blood cancer for many
many years and we use a variety of ways
to understand blood cancer we are among
the first labs to find genes that are
implicated in various blood cancers we
try to find out how these genes work and
why they cause cancer and whether we can
use drugs to solve these particular
blood cancers leukemias and lymphomas we
are now becoming more and more
interested in gene therapy for blood
cancers we've used begun to use these
technologies like gene engineering and
in fact one of the things that we're
interested have been able to do is use
gene engineering technologies to
eliminate some of the genes or
inactivate some of the genes that cause
blood cancers wolverines of has very
interesting premise as you know because
it reverses the normal science fiction
thriller inland in the typical 1950s
humans are running away from the mutants
in the inn at least in the x-men for the
first time you get this this idea that
the mutants or the variants are being
pursued by the humans and they have to
hide from the humans that idea is
actually very profound if
philosophically very ethically with
profound idea is who's normal and how do
we what is discrimination of persecution
mean